Unlike a simple backup, an image also contains information about the (file system) structure of the original medium (including the boot sector), since the raw data is read - including all meta and administrative data - and not just the data of the files. This makes it possible to quickly produce copies of a medium, using <a href="https://backupchain.com">backup software</a>, that are as accurate as possible and, moreover, as complete as possible. The high speed at which an image can be produced results from the ability to call hardware functions directly to read or write the data. An image file reproduces the original data carrier very exactly; sometimes error information is also copied so that, for example, the image of a CD is not rendered unusable by copy protection mechanisms. Some installed software is no longer executed due to copy protection mechanisms if it is located in a different hard disk sector than when it was installed by simply copying the program files back. If you try to restore with a file-based backup, this software would no longer work. 

If one wants to multiply CDs or equip several computers initially with the same programs and/or data, it can be advantageous to generate for this an appropriate CD or non removable <a href="https://backupchain.com/i/disk-backup">disk image</a> and to write afterwards several times. In this way, one computer can first be completely set up and its hard disk can then be "cloned" onto the hard disks of other computers. 

However, the direct reference to hardware structures can also prove to be a disadvantage - the image of a hard disk cannot usually be written one-to-one to a CD, since the file systems of hard disks and CDs are usually completely different. In addition, image files on some operating systems can only be read with special programs and cannot always be modified; other operating systems, on the other hand, contain functions for working with image files as an integral part. 
In particular CD image functions are usually already supplied with the operating system, because the non-changeable file system ISO 9660 is very widespread. Occasionally there is talk of ISO images - this refers to images of CDs in ISO 9660 format. 



