# cautious-fiesta
Inspired by this article about <a href="https://backupchain.com/i/how-to-easily-protect-your-servers-against-ransomware">
Ransomware protection</a> I'm looking into different ways to protect our company's servers

Storage image backup
With <a href="https://backupchain.com">image backup software</a>, the entire data carrier (usually the hard disk, but also USB mass storage devices, optical media or, with some programs, data carriers in the network) or only a partition can be backed up with a 1-to-1 image. For example, not only the user data, but the entire file system, including the operating system and user settings, can be saved. The advantage of this backup is that in the event of a total failure of the computer, the memory image can be restored to the data medium and thus the state of the respective data medium at the time of the backup can be fully restored. During such a restore, either the entire file system is restored in its original structure (in this case no file system driver is required, only a device driver for disk access), or a special driver regularly reads the file system and extracts only the desired directories and files from the backup in order to integrate them as normal directories and files into the current file system or to overwrite the current ones with the older ones that have been backed up (see also "Incremental backup"). Since a few years there are also programs on the market that can create such backups incrementally as well.
Differential backup
With the so-called differential backup, all files that have been changed or newly added since the last complete backup are saved. This means that the last complete backup is always used again, saving storage space and time compared to a new full backup. If a file has been changed, the respective version of the file is backed up with each differential run. 
The advantage is the significantly reduced memory requirement, and that the current backup is only one step away from the last full backup. The programming of the backup software can be relatively simple. Another advantage is that backup states that are no longer needed can be deleted independently, whereas incremental backups are necessarily chained together. However, for very large files that change frequently (virtual machines, databases, mailbox files of some e-mail programs), differential backup is disadvantageous; differential backup backs up the entire file again despite only minor changes. 
